part of what we're going to talk about today, we've been in a series called Salt and Light, and that is living our faith out in this world.
And the question becomes really, so how do you do that?
How do you learn to live like Jesus in a world that's not like Jesus?
And I have to pause, I was listening to Laura's sermon, this is just a free aside for nothing.
I'm looking for investors.
You know, she was saying, if you could open your Bible and the Bible would tell you what to wear and she'd tell you what to put on your heart.
I'm thinking about, as a man, I have real trouble deciding what to wear.
And I'll walk out the door and my wife will go, are you wearing that?
Which is usually a pretty clear signal that I'm not and I'll be changing.
So I've come up with this ingenious idea and I need investors.
Any of you grew up in the time of grandmals?
You know what grandimals are, you know, the kids, the tops and bottoms have animals, you match them.
I'm creating animals.
Where in the back there are color coding, so you can say this top goes with these pants and stuff like any you're interested, just speak to me after the worship and you can be an investor in animals.
So enough foolishness.
Let's look at our scripture from today.
We've already alluded to it and if you'll look up on the screen,
We'll begin with our primary text, which comes from Colossians.
And it's three verses 16 and 17.
Let's read this together as we share.
Let the word of Christ dwell in you richly.
Teach and admonish one another in all wisdom.
And with gratitude in your hearts, sing Psalms, hymns, and spiritual songs to God.
And whatever you do, in word and deed,
do everything in the name of the Lord Jesus, giving thanks to God for the Father through Him.
This is the word of God for the people of God.
If you have words you live by, what are they?
Where'd you get them?
Where'd you find them?
There are voices in my head, not, you know,
in a good way that speak to me almost every day of words that I'm supposed to live by.
Listen, and I hear the voice of my mother-in-law who I just love dearly.
And she would always say, this too shall pass.
And so when I'm in a hard time, I draw on her wisdom and I can hear Doris's voice say that as a matter of fact, one of the gifts she gave all the kids was a cross stitch that was this too shall.
pass.
If I ever get a tattoo, that's probably what I'm going to get is this too shall pass somewhere.
Growing up, another set of words that I lived into was from being a boy scout.
And if y'all ever in scouting, ooh, I stand alone.
So you're not going to link to this.
Growing up, my dad, mom, made sure all of us were in scouting.
And in scouting, you have a handbook.
And in the handbook, there is a motto and a slogan and the Boy Scout laws and the Boy Scout oath.
And you know, they were so impressed on me that I still remember them.
Do a good turn daily.
A scout is trustworthy, loyal, helpful, friendly, courteous, kind, obedient, cheerful, thirsty, brave, clean and reverent.
And those words echo not only in my mind, but in my heart.
And more than that, they begin to
Act out, I know how to tie the knots that were in that handbook.
I know how to build a fire all because I had people like Mr. John Parker and Bruce Hufford who came into my life and taught me the words that were in that book and helped me make them part of my life.
In the movement of being salt and light, there's really in my mind kind of three movements.
The first one is you get the word.
You get the knowledge in your head.
I'm wearing my Einstein tie to make me look smarter.
Albert Einstein took words, took formulas, took math, and expressed things in a way that science had never seen.
And because of his new language, because of the way he laid it out, he led science on an incredible path of change and enlightenment, my scouting
kind of did that with me.
It instilled with me values and so forth.
But growing up, there were other things.
There was the church.
I was in Sunday school, every Sunday.
I was in Bible school.
As a matter of fact, when I moved here, one of my highlight moments, I hadn't been here.
Preachers usually move right in the middle of Bible school.
And so it's a wonderful opportunity to get to know people, but it's kind of overwhelming.
And so when I moved to St. Matthews, I was walking down the highway to go to where, the highway, the hallway,
to go to where they were having the opening for Bible school.
And there was a little, about a 10 or 12 year old kid coming down the hallway and he stopped and looked at me and he said, hey, you the new preacher?
I said, yes sir.
He said, well, let me explain something to you.
We've been doing Bible school all week and there's some important stuff that you've already missed.
I said, well, I'm sorry, what did I miss?
And he said, well, first of all, the rule of 10.
I have this anxiety of being late for stuff.
So my mind is kind of going, I'm going to be late to get there for the opening, but the little boy was serious.
So I looked down and I said, okay, what's the rule of 10?
He said, pay attention because this will make a difference in your life.
I'm like, you're going to become the poster child for Bible school.
This kid is incredible.
He said, now pay attention because this is a lot.
Okay.
He said, I can do all things through.
Christ who strengthens me.
Did you get that?
I said, hey, do it again.
And he goes, I can do all things through Christ who strengthens me.
And I'm like, dude, that is awesome.
He said, yes, it is.
Just remember.
And he walked by.
In our life, part of our responsibility is to find words that stick
words that are in line with what God wants us to be.
And we have a manual in case you didn't know.
And nestle within that manual are those words that frame and shape how God wants us to live.
It is literally what we call the word of God.
And so as we read it and study it, we as the church have tried to build spaces for you to find that.
Andy does devotion.
You can find online.
There are Sunday school classes.
There's vacation Bible school.
There's the worship service where we try to take the word and put it in your heart and sew it into your life.
And so when you want to be salt and light, the word salt and light have to be in you.
And you have to learn it.
Your praise team comes in practices.
What if they just practiced and didn't show up on Sunday?
What if they didn't learn the words?
What if they didn't blend their music together?
What if they didn't know what they were singing?
As a preacher, one of the things that's really frustrated me is I think somehow people in the pews think they absorb the word by osmosis through their behind in a pew.
It doesn't work like that.
You have to learn it.
To learn the knots, to learn the things that help you in life.
And they're in here.
It just takes time.
It takes patience.
It takes community to get that word inside of you.
But there's another movement in that.
And that movement is the word can't just be in your head.
It has to make a move down into your heart.
The beautiful song that Laura's saying had the 23rd Psalm in it.
One of my favorite stories is the story of the small little church that decided to have revival.
One of their favorite sons had become a real eloquent speaker.
The man who was their pastor was old like me and he kind of stumbled around and he wasn't real eloquent.
And so they were so excited to have this young man's energy.
And so he came in and as he started his speech,
He read so eloquently the 23rd Psalm and the congregation was just like melting like butter at every word he would say and read.
But at the end of the sermon, he invited the pastor up to the podium with him.
And when he got up there, he put his arm around him and he said, this man formed and shaped me as I was growing up.
And you've listened to my words and you've heard me as I know the 23rd Psalm.
But let me tell you about this man.
He knows the shepherd.
There's a difference between knowing the 23rd Psalm and knowing the shepherd.
There's a difference between knowing the beatitudes.
and no one Jesus.
There's a difference between knowing the 10 commandments and being in relationship with God.
In order to be salt and light, it's not just the word.
You have to know the one who gave the word.
There has to be a relationship for words to really sink in and shape you.
My mother-in-law, this too shall past, didn't shape me because of the words that shape me because she lived that.
She was that.
She taught us that.
Part of the responsibility, if you go back and look at our scripture text, is that Jesus calls us through Paul, not only to know the word, but to learn it together in community and to hold each other accountable in it.
I'm just going to tell you, if you're not in some group of learning, if you're not in a process of bringing the Word into you and growing into your relationship with Christ, that Word is not going to be what it was meant to be the living Word that lives inside of you, that comes to life.
that forms and shapes you.
In this world, people use the Scripture loosely.
Lynn Sweet calls it Versitis.
People pull out a verse in the Bible and use it to justify whatever they do.
That's not what the Word was meant for.
Jesus said, I've come that you might have life.
I'm not going to tell you you're wrong if you say the wrong thing.
I've come that you might have life and have it abundantly.
The Word is given to us, not that we're going to get to heaven and have an essay question.
The Word was given to us that we would learn and have the life Jesus and God and the Holy Spirit have intended us to have since creation.
So being in the Word is not enough.
The Word has to be in you.
And that word is a living word.
It is God Himself.
Jesus was the incarnation of the Word of God.
The Word become flesh and dwelling in and among us.
And so what are you doing to nurture that relationship?
Jesus nurtured His relationship.
You know, we forget what happened when He was 12 years old.
He disappeared.
His parents couldn't any of you lost your kids and tried to find them, panic,
For days, Mary and Joseph look for Jesus and where did they find him?
At the foot of the scholars and the rabbis, asking them questions, finding the word so many times we think of Jesus as only divine, but he was fully human and he was learning and finding his words.
And those words that he learned as a child from his father, those words that he learned from those rabbis, those words that he learned from going to synagogue and being a part of a worshiping community framed
and strengthened his ministry.
And time and time again, he would do a sermon from a place that was nestled in an Old Testament story.
Or you would pull a scripture from the Old Testament and take it and say, you've heard it said, but I say, this whole ministry, not only was built around the world, was built around his relationship with Jesus.
I think our next scripture is in John, is that the one we've got next?
Look at this passage, John 17, 13 through 17.
We're going to revisit it.
Ginger alluded to it, but let me have you read it with me together.
This is Jesus after he is, as he's getting ready to head towards the end of his ministry, he's praying for you.
He didn't just say, here's how you pray.
Our Father who art in heaven, he prayed himself.
And in those prayers, he lifted us up.
Here's his prayer for us.
But now I'm coming to you, Father, and I speak these things in the world so that they may have the joy made complete in themselves.
I've given them your word and the world has hated them because they don't belong to this world.
And just as I don't belong to the world, I'm not asking you to take them out of the world, but I'm asking you to protect them from the evil one.
They don't belong to this world just as I don't belong to this world.
Sanctify them in the truth.
Your word is truth.
Jesus took the words that formed and shaped them.
And then in relationship with God,
invited us to be a part of that word and to be in a word world that doesn't know that word, which takes us to the last part of becoming salt and light.
You don't just need to know the word and the one, you need to know the way to live that out.
How do you become the word, the salt and the light for this world?
How do you find your way into letting those thoughts form and shape you?
I have to tell you, you remember the rule of 10?
Four years after that young man had told me about the rule of 10, I had open heart surgery, quadruple bypass, six blockages.
I couldn't preach for three months.
I was at home in depression, pouting, mad at God.
And the Holy Spirit put those words on my heart.
I can do all things through Christ who strengthens me.
A little boy.
And I began to marinate in that as I started physical therapy, I had a trainer.
And in our second time together, I was trying to duck walk.
If y'all ever duck walked as an exercise, that's cruel and unusual punishment, especially if you don't have a strong core.
Cause I would get about two little waddles and then I'd fall over like a weebel and just kind of go to my side.
Y'all probably don't even know what a weebel is.
So I probably shouldn't have used that.
And I was just, I was mad at myself and my trainer came over and he helped me up and he patted me on the back and he said, bro, Steve, your problem is your core is weak.
I was like, excuse me.
Excuse me.
Your core is weak.
He said, we're going to work on your core.
Week after week, he would do that.
And I began to see my body get stronger and the Holy Spirit started working to me and was saying core.
My faith was weak too.
I was wobbling through the hardest of times.
And I began to think about that word and I created an acrostic that now I'm working on and I use in my training called core strength, centered, ordered, related and engaged.
The word has become flesh in me.
That's the gift God seeks to give all of us.
We don't all get the same word.
Your memory verse may not be the same memory versus mine.
Your life verse may not be the same life verse, but what's really incredible is if we all put our life verses together, guess what?
We really get the living word.
Today we're celebrating communion.
Sometimes we forget about the word that formed and shaped that for Jesus.
he had set the room for the Passover meal.
He knew the stories of Exodus about God's deliverance.
He knew the promises of a new kingdom come.
So when he took those elements that were intended for a celebration of a past deliverance, he said to them, what?
I bring to you a new covenant out of the words that have formed me.
I give you new words to live by.
Words that'll bring you life.
Words that'll bring you hope.
Words that have come out of different words.
The last passage I want us to look at is from Psalms.
As Jesus was being crucified, we all know one of his last words was what?
My God, my God, why have you forsaken me?
In Psalms 19, he writes, your word is a lamp unto my path and a light unto my feet.
That word in that moment, what we don't understand about that word is that word came from a Psalm that was beginning as a word of despair.
But guess where it ended?
Talking about God's coming kingdom.
Those who knew the word, that hurt Him as on the cross, didn't just hear words of despair.
They heard the promise of the resurrection that was coming.
The word was so much a part of Jesus that he used even his last breath to try to lead people to the life God intended them to lead.
And so when he was standing over those elements and he was saying, this is my body.
This is my blood.
The cups that were there before them that they had shared in the ceremony were the cups of atonement, the cups of salvation, the cups of deliverance, and the cup that was never drank from, or the promise of the coming kingdom of Elijah.
God has given us a precious word, a living word, a word for us to live by.
And as we come to this communion,
I want you to remember that God doesn't waste words.
God's given us treasure and God's given us the opportunity for that word to become flesh in us.
Let's pray.